By Victor Nwachukwu Felix Inyama, a Professor of English and Literary Studies, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN), was on Friday laid to rest in his home at Ezinihitte-Mbaise in Imo. Age 74, Inyama, a former university orator, died on Jan. 12 when he was attending a conference in Abuja. Speaking at his funeral, Prof. Uzodinma Nwala, of the  Department of Political Science described the late professor as a patriotic Nigerian who contributed his quota to the development of the UNN and his hometown. According to him, the late Inyama’s milk of human compassion and love for others stood out in dealings with his students and townsmen. He called on youths of Itu community to emulate the deceased’s God-fearing disposition and patriotic nature. ”Prof. Inyama is one man, too many. He lived for humanity and contributed immensely to the development of Itu. I urge the younger generation to emulate his patriotism and humane nature,” the don said. Earlier in a sermon,  Rev. Fr. Joe Egbule, the Parish Priest of St. Patrick’s Catholic Church, Itu, Ezinihitte-Mbaise, described the late Inyama as a devout christian and consummate academic. Egbule said that Inyama’s ability to lead a  christian life in spite of enormous secular responsibilities, was indicative of his preference for good life over material possession. He called on the congregation to live the christian way so as to receive divine blessings. “We are gathered here today to celebrate good life and pay our last respects to a devout christian and consummate teacher. “May we continue to emulate such a man of goodwill and to allow spiritual things take precedence in our lives to receive God’s blessings,” he said. Also, a daughter of the deceased, Miss Ulonna Inyama, described her late father as a man of many parts. She added that he was a great teacher in and out of the classroom whose peace loving, philanthropic and humane disposition would forever be remembered. Mrs Ugonne Inyama-Uzoma, another daughter of the deceased and Senior Correspondent with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Owerri, pledged to live the late professor’s legacies. She thanked God for his life “well spent”, while thanking guests at the event for finding time to identify with the family in their time of grief. “We are grateful to friends and well wishers for identifying with us at this time and we pledge to improve on daddy’s legacies and bring his yet to be accomplished dreams to fruition,” she said. NAN reports that the event was graced by the academia, staff of NAN and members, Imo chapter of the Nigerian Union of Journalists. (NAN)