By George Odok The Naval War College Nigeria has graduated 25 officers of the Command Level Officers’ Course 4 after a three weeks intensive training in Calabar. Speaking during the graduation ceremony in Calabar, Commandant of the College, Rear Adm. Adeseye Ayobanjo, said that the course was designed to prepare select officers for command responsibility. Ayobanjo explained that the course was aimed at enhancing effectiveness in command, leadership and management by focusing on self-awareness, ethics, communication skills, team work and command climate. “I must state that this graduation ceremony in honour of Command Level Officers’ Course 4 participants mark yet another milestone in the annals of the College. “It seems just like yesterday when you assembled here for the course, and today, after three weeks of vigorous training, extensive lectures from seasoned expert and resource persons from within and outside the military, you are graduating successfully. “We have 25 graduating senior officers ready to go back to the field to contribute positively towards the achievement of the Nigerian Navy overall responsibility. “Let me use this opportunity to state that the conceptualisation, planning and execution of this course are well in tandem with the vision of the Chief of the Naval staff, Rear Adm. AZ Gambo “The vision is to leverage on all factors of national location, technology, training, team work and synergy to re-energize the Nigerian Navy and enhance her as a well-motivated and ready Naval force in the discharge of her constitutional mandates and other assigned tasks in fulfillment of national security objectives,” he said. He explained that the Chief of the Naval Staff therefore envisions that the Nigerian Navy core values of team work, integrity and professionalism finds a more effective reference and meaning in a well-trained and motivated workforce.  He urged the graduands to see themselves as a privileged integral part of the renewed vigour towards attainment of the set goals. He noted that the Nigerian Navy has been undergoing some transformation occasioned by contemporary threats in the maritime domain, changing operational concept, fleet renewal, advancement in technology as well as effects of globalisation and human development. The Commandant, who congratulated the graduands for their successful training, cautioned them not to forget the basis of the knowledge based approach to leadership that they were taught in the College. In his remarks, Rear Adm. Perry Onwuzulike, Fleet Commander, Eastern Fleet of the Nigerian Navy, congratulated the Commandant of the College and the graduands for their training and graduation. Onwuzulike, who was the special guest of honour at the event, said that the College has carved a niche for itself as a centre of excellence. Highpoint of the event was the presentation of certificates to the 25 graduands.