By Moses Omorogieva The list of activities the Karate Federation of Nigeria (KFN) will be involved in this year shows that the federation will carry out no fewer than 22 programmes in 2021. The calendar of events calendar, signed by the federation’s Secretary-General, Adamu Maikano, was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) by the federation’s Technical Director, Dave Jegede, on Friday. According to the calendar, the federation will have about 13 events under national programmes, and these include the 20th National Sports Festival in Edo which has been moved to April. The federation will have the international technical/coaches course for coaches and referees, with Antonio Oliva Seba, a World Karate Federation (WKF) world coach, conducting it. It will take place in Lagos between March 4 and March 6. Other events are the Ogun State National Open Junior and Senior Championship and Clinic on classification for Para-Karate between March 11 and March 13 in Abeokuta. The national squad training camp in preparation for the WKF Premier League will hold at the High Performance Centre, Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja from March 22 to April 5. The federation on June 16 to June 19 will have the second edition of the Nasarawa State Open National Karate Championship at Lafia. The first edition of the National Open Para-Karate Championship will hold at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja from Sept. 14 to Sept. 18. The event will involve wheelchair karate, as well as karate for the visually-impaired, deaf and dumb, nervous impaired and the amputees. In the same September, the federation has planned to have the Optimum Impact South-West Open Youth Championship and SKI International Course Championship with Shuseki Shihan Murakami, both in Lagos. The 7th Hajiya Zainab Seleh International Female Championship will hold in October in Lagos. Also, the Nigeria University Games Association (NUGA) Karate Championship has been planned for Nov. 4 by the federation, but the venue is yet to be decided. From Nov. 7 to Nov. 15, the federation will have the national squad camping for cadet, junior and senior players at Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. The Goodluck Jonathan UFAK West African Junior/Senior Karate Championship will hold in Port Harcourt from Nov. 16 to Nov. 21. The 25th Nigerian Karate Association (NKA) National Black Belt College Workshop/Championship will come up at the Kano Township Stadium from Dec. 6. NAN reports that the federation’s national events will end with KFN’s Full Council Meeting (General Congress) in Abuja on Dec. 3 at a venue yet to be decided. The calendar also revealed the regional African programmes, which include the WKF premier league at Rabat in Morocco from April 6 to April 11. The UFAK West African Junior/Senior Karate Championship will also hold in Egypt from Aug. 24 to Aug. 29 . The world programmes include the WKF Premier League at Lisbon in Portugal from Feb. 19 to Feb. 21. The federation’s Olympic Training Tour (Championship International Karate League Dojo) will be in Liege in Belgium from May 24 to June 8. On June 9 to June 13, there will be Tokyo 2020 Olympic qualification tournament at Paris in France. Also, the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games’ Karate Competition will hold from Aug. 5 to Aug. 7. The WKF Senior World Championship will also hold at Dubai in UAE from Nov. 15 to Nov. 22. (NAN)