By Rita Iliya The Federal Government has inaugurated a special cash grant for rural women in Niger with beneficiaries from across the 25 local government areas of the state. Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouk,  the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, inaugurated  the project at the Government House in Minna on Saturday. She explained that the cash grant was part of the social protection programmes of President Muhammadu Buhari-led  administration aimed at uplifting vulnerable groups in  the society out of poverty. Farouk added that as part of efforts by  the Federal Government to eradicate poverty and hunger across the country, it established the National Social Investment Programmes (NSIP) that enhanced social inclusion and protection of the vulnerable in the country. She said that the programme was designed to provide a one-off grant of N20,000 to each of  the poorest and most vulnerable women in rural Nigeria and  increase their access to financial capital required for economic activities. The minister disclosed that no less than  4,000 rural women would benefit from the cash grant of N20,000 each to uplift their socio-economic status  in Niger. She said that  the grant was being disbursed to over 150,000 poor rural women across the 36 states of the country. Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger in his remarks lauded the Federal Government’s NSIP intervention in the state, adding that the programme had been consistent as well as impactful. Bello, who was represented by Alhaji Ahmed Matane, the  Secretary to the State Government, advised the beneficiaries to make judicious use of the grant to transform their households and reduce poverty. In her welcome address, Hajiya Amina Gu’ra, Focal Person of the National Social Investment Programme in the state, commended the Federal Government for its continuous support to the state. She said that it was  aimed at uplifting the poor and the vulnerable. She said that the beneficiaries would be monitored to ensure proper use of the grant and warned them against using the fund for other purposes  that would not  be beneficial to them. Mrs Liyatu Ishaku, the Secretary of the Association of Market Women, who spoke on behalf of the beneficiaries, appreciated the Federal Government’s gesture to women and promised  that they would  use the grant to better their lots. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that dignitaries in attendance include:  Amb. Zubairu Dada, the  Minister of State for Foreign Affairs; Hajiya Fati Ibrahim, the state Commissioner for  Women Affairs; Hajiya Binta Mamman, House Committee on Women Affairs and Hajiya Salamatu Abubakar, Head of Service. (NAN)