By Ikenna Osuoha Chief Emeka Offor, a Philanthropist and Chairman of Emeka Offor Foundation, donated one million to Mr and Mrs Ahmed Tawakalitu, parents of conjoined twins and another N1 million to the medical team that separated the twins. Offor made the donation at the occasion of his 62nd birthday in Abuja on Wednesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the conjoined twins; Habbeebat and Habbeeb, were separated on Jan. 14 at University of Ilorin (Unilorin) Teaching Hospital by a team of doctors. Offor, who expressed joy over the successful operation, said it was a demonstration of commitment and excellent leadership qualities. He explained that the N1 million given to the parents was for 10 months, in line with his pledge of N100,000 monthly stipend for a period of five years, which took effect from Feb. 1. He also said that a donation of 40-feet container-load of medical equipment and supplies and 100 hospital bed sets to Unilorin Teaching Hospital by his foundation was the beginning of a relationship anchored on love for humanity. The philanthropist, who reaffirmed his delight in advancing humanity by helping others, commended the management of the teaching hospital for providing employment to parents of the twins. Offor, who prayed for more years with good health, appealed to Nigerians to always stay safe from COVID-19 by complying with safety protocols prescribed by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). He noted that “COVID-19 is real no matter what some people may think about it, please always protect yourselves by washing hands, wearing face mask so that we all can live long.” He said that he would continue to put smiles on the faces of the downtrodden as his on role in making the world a better place. Prof. Abdullahi Yusuff, the Chief Medical Director, Unilorin Teaching Hospital, thanked Offor “for the uncommon generosity and compassion for the downtrodden.” Yusuff, represented by Dr Mathew Bojuwaye, the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee of the teaching hospital, commended the philanthropist “for the countless support to humanity in general and the teaching hospital in particular. “We are highly delighted for your kind support of N1 million to the team of medical experts that performed the successful separation of the twins. “And a N100,000 monthly stipend to the parents of the twins for five years is just awesome,” he said. Chief Val Ozoigbo, the former Managing Director of Transcorp Hilton and Gubernatorial aspirant in Anambra, described Emeka Offor as “a man with big heart in charity and service to humanity.” Ozoigbo expressed delight in identifying himself with a personality and philanthropist as Emeka Offor “who had traversed every nook and cranny of humanity, helping and putting smiles on people’s faces.” Highlight of the event was the handing over of N1 million cheque each to the parents and the medical team of experts that separated the conjoined twins. (NAN)