By Emmanuel Afonne A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Neighbourhood Economic Development Foundation (NEDF), has blamed the security challenges faced by Nigerians on the activities of some citizens who derive pleasure in ”bad-mouthing” issues concerning the country. Mr Taju Dolapo, President/Founder, NEDF, said in a statement on Sunday in Abuja that the negative utterances of many citizens were one of the greatest challenges facing the country. Dolapo noted that negative statements usually had negative impacts on the spiritual, psychological and physical destiny of an individual or nation where they were not countered immediately with positive ones. “Over the years, unfortunately, it has become a terrible trend in Nigeria to see and hear Nigerians talk down on their country in a “not-too-wise-manner. “The result of the negative seeds being sowed over the years is what we are sadly reaping now in different ways as a nation. “To reverse this sad story, Neighbourhood Economic Development Foundation is leading the charge to the leadership of this country, from the Executive, Legislative, Traditional and Religious leaders to join  hands and support the effort to change the negative narratives,” Dolapo said. According to him, the narratives will be changed by making “God Bless Nigeria” Nigeria’s main official motto, while “Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress” becomes the second slogan. Dalapo said, “the proposed motto is more powerful, with strong transformational qualities to change the condition of our country to a great and excellent one, devoid of injustice, corruption and other negativity. “God Bless Nigeria” is a popular statement and prayer-line by quite a number of Nigerians already, including the leaderships. “But by making it official, it will help to popularise it more and entrench it deeper into the consciousness of the citizens for the desired positive turnaround of our beloved country, spiritually, psychologically and indeed physically by God’s grace. “We need to stop the bickering and unnecessary shedding of innocent blood and truly commit this great country into the hands of God Almighty who created the heaven and the earth. “Without God, there is nothing we can do, but with God, the sky is the limit to which we can go in terms of peace, progress and national development.” (NAN)