By Ikenna Osuoha President, AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF),Mr Michael Weinstein, on Friday reaffirmed the commitment of the foundation to making condom affordable and placing its access on high priority list. Weinstein said this in a statement in Abuja by Mr Steve Aborisade, Advocacy and Marketing Manager, AHF. The president, who spoke in commemoration of the International Condom Day (ICD), noted that the day had been a platform for them to call on governments and health institutions to ensure that people had tools to protect themselves and loved ones. “This is especially important when we are still seeing 1.7 million new HIV infections every year. “It is simply not acceptable when we have the means to distribute condoms to people worldwide to keep them safe from preventable disease,” he said. The Country Director, AHF-Nigeria, Dr Echey Ijezie, said that the foundation should be providing free HIV testing and promote healthy lifestyle in accordance with 2021 theme of “Always in Fashion.”. The Chief of Global Advocacy and Policy, AHF, Mr Terri Ford, who,regretted the setback made in the fight against HIV by COVID-19, said that lockdowns and restrictions were threats to condom access and distribution. ”This is particularly in countries where stockouts and other barriers made it difficult for people to get condoms. “AHF remains committed to ensuring people everywhere have access to free and affordable condoms with our always in fashion.” he said Ford who expressed delight over the progress made so far in HIV and STI preventions, said that International Condom Day events were one way they had done that. According to him, the organisation encourage everyone in the 45 countries where it operates to find a nearby entertaining event and spread the word on the importance of condoms and condom access for all. NAN reports that the International Condom Day (ICD) started by AHF in 2008. AHF is the largest global AIDS organisation determined in reducing the spread of HIV through preventive interventions. It is aimed at promoting condom use as effective method for preventing Sexually Transmitted Infections and unplanned pregnancies. The 2021 event is tagged “Always in Fashion,”  the AHF in collaboration with National Agency for Control of AIDS are advancing the message of safer sexual practices as well as distribution of condoms.(NAN)