By Victor Adeoti A Non-Governmental Organisation, Victims Support Fund (VSF) Taskforce on coronavirus, on Wednesday donated Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) facilities to three Secondary schools in Osun. The WASH facilities, it said, is to help in curbing transmission of the COVID-19. The WASH facilities donated to each of the schools included 4,000 solar-powered borehole, four hand wash stations, 2,000 pieces of reusable facemasks, five pieces of four-litre hand sanitisers, 120 bottles of 500ml liquid hand wash and five cartoon of bleach. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three Secondary schools that benefited from the donation are Okoyekola High School, Ijabe, Ansarudeen Grammar School, Iloro, Ile-Ife, and Baptist High School, Ikire. Speaking at Baptist Grammar School, Ikire, Mrs Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji, Chairperson for COVID-19 taskforce of VSF, said the donation is an intervention aimed at minimising the spread of coronavirus. Akerele-Ogunsiji said the Chairman of VSF, Retired Gen.Theophilus Danjuman, was passionate about providing succour to vulnerable Nigerians as well as institutional support to agencies involved in the fight against COVID-19. Akerele-Ogunsiji, who noted that the donation is part of the ongoing COVID-19 intervention by the organisation, said hand washing remains a singular preventive measure against the virus. She urged the school management to ensure proper maintenance and adequate use of the facilities, adding that VSF monitoring and evaluation team will be visiting from time to time to ascertain the maintenance of the facilities. Akerele-Ogunsiji said 54 Secondary Schools in 18 states across the six geo-political zones will benefit from the WASH donation by VSF, adding that this will cost the organisation more than N200 million. ” We commenced the VSF COVID-19 intervention in Abuja on April 14, 2020, on the instruction of Gen. Danjuma to go round the country to provide food, Personal Protection Equipment, medical items, testing kits, among others, to contain COVID-19. “We have completed the first and the second phases of the intervention and we are now at the third phase of providing WASH facilities to schools in the country,” Akerele-Ogunsiji said. She said VSF had donated 300,000 hand washing soap to Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps and vulnerable families in the country. Meanwhile, Gov. Gboyega Oyetola, during the courtesy visit of the VSF team to his office, commended the organisation for the good gesture. Represented by his deputy, Mr Benedict Alabi, Oyetola said the state government will continue to do its best to contain the virus. (NAN)