By Femi Ogunshola Rep. Samuel Onuigbo, member, representing Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency says his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) will not affect his performance or popularity. Onuigbo made this known while speaking with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abuja. He said that his popularity was still intact among his constituents. “Will my moving to the APC in anyway make me return all the projects that I have attracted from an APC controlled Federal government even when I was in PDP?” “The cardinal point is how I have represented my people who are the focus, that is what we should be interested in.” Onuigbo stated that he attracted a gigantic road project–Umuahia-Ikwuano-Ikot Ekpene Federal Road at the cost of N13.2billion even when he was in the opposition party. “So now that I am in the ruling party you can imagine what will happen.” Onuigbo said he had also secured a N400 million and N350 million erosion control works, adding that he was now on the issue of Federal Secretariat to be constructed in Abia state after 30 years of its creation. On the completion of the erosion control Works, it was commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the former Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Sen. Heineken Lokpobri. “I am the one championing the construction of a federal secretariat. Will I now be the one going to oppose it because I am in the APC? “This will make you understand that the passion for my people I represent, is central to me. “I told my people in 2014 that I was going to represent them on the acronym of Effectiveness, Accessibility and Responsiveness (EAR) to those who have used their thumb to get me to Abuja.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that Onuigbo on Dec. 17, 2020 defected to APC from PDP on the floor of the House. He said that the three acronym of ”EAR” would help him to respond to their legitimate concerns and aspirations as their elected representative. Onuigbo also said that he was able to secure re-election because of his commitment to the people. “I am the first person in my constituency to be re-elected in 20 years. So, I owe it a duty to continue the cardinal points,” he said.