By Martha Agas The Rotary International has eulogised its past Governor of District 9120, the late Chief Sunny-Joe Agba, for his contribution to the eradication of polio in Nigeria. Agba, who was the District Governor of the club in 2004/2005 was also commended for his charity and educational outreaches which targeted the indigent. The Governor of District 9125, Mrs Jumoke Bamigboye, eulogised the deceased at a tribute and candle light night organised in his honour  on Thursday in Jos. She said the late Agba was committed to Rotary’s End Polio Campaign, child spacing advocacy and other health outreaches. Bamigboye said contributions of Rotarians such as Agba, who was a Paul Harris Fellow of the international NGO, helped in making Nigeria being certified polio-free in July 2020. She described the late Agba as a benevolent man who empathised with the indigent, especially in meeting their health and welfare needs. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Paul Harris Fellows  are individuals who have contributed at least 1,000 dollars to the Rotary Foundation. Bamigboye said Agba during his tenure ran an inclusive administration as the district governor of 9120 before it was restructured to 9125. She described him as an ardent believer in the four-way test of Rotary which harps on fairness in policies and plans and its impact on the target beneficiaries. “He was humble, a peace maker, jovial, detribalised and gave words of wisdoms to us in Rotary, to aid our duties. I condone with his wife, children and the Rotary family in Jos.  I urge you to take solace on his humanitarian legacies,” she said. In his tribute, the Past Secretary, District 9120 in 2004/2005, Mr. Solomon Aguh, who served with the deceased, described him as a goal getter, who helped in establishing more Rotary Clubs in Jos. He said the deceased made conditions for registration easy, to attract more members, saying old clubs were restored and the number of clubs increased from 18 to 36. Aguh lauded the late Agba for his literacy advocacy campaigns, through facilitating the implementation of language programmes in Jos for three years. In his exhortation entitled “What is Life?“, Rev Fr. Gabriel Gowok of the Pankshin Catholic Archdiocese urged Rotarians to discover their purpose in life. The cleric, who is also Rotarian, said the NGO helped in giving direction and making live meaningful to people. He urged members to desist from procrastination by taking advantage of opportunities to meet the needs of the less privileged. Responding on behalf of the family, the son of the deceased, Mr. Nonso Agba, thanked Rotary for honouring their father. He said his late father was passionate in providing humanitarian services who also advocated for peaceful coexistence in communities. NAN reports that the deceased joined Rotary Club in Jos in 1978 and served as the Centennial Past District Governor of Rotary International. He died on Jan. 3, 2021 at 78. (NAN)