By Muhyideen Jimoh The Ogbomoso Descendants Development Association (ODDA) has charged the Oyo State Government and residents of the state to forge stronger synergy in tackling issue of insecurity in the state. Mr Aremu Kuti, Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the association said this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja. The association stressed the need for all hands to be on deck to secure the lives and property of all indigenes and residents of the state. “We commend the governor’s efforts so far in securing the state, but there is room for much improvement. “We also implore him and all indigenes and residents of Oyo State to stand firm until we completely rid our state of criminal elements whose activities are inimical to the development and well-being of all,” Kuti said. ODDA, however, called for more proactive measures by  government so that non- state actors do not destroy peace process in the state. The association, which described itself as a critical stakeholder in the  state pledged to support ongoing efforts of government to curb insecurity. “We as a an association and a stakeholder in the affairs of our dear state, we are ready to partner with the government to ensure peaceful existence of all and sundry throughout the state. “We sympathise with all those that have lost their loved ones, raped, wounded, kidnapped, have their farmlands destroyed and many more. “We are also soliciting for the maximum cooperation of all residents of Oyo State, particularly those of the Ogbomoso zone, not to relent in being at alert and giving useful information to relevant security agencies and the government,” he added. On issues surrounding the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso (LAUTECH), the association called on Gov. Seyi Makinde to urgently resolve the purported industrial action by workers of the institution over emolument arrears. “Issues like this protest is one of the reasons we want the state government to consolidate on LAUTECH rather than being distracted by some individuals on the multi-campus issue. “We urge the state government to speedily do something to avoid any form of industrial action. “We also use this medium to reiterate our stand for the state government to jettison any plan for a multi-campus system for the revered institution,” the association said. (NAN)