By Akeem Abas Mr Kehinde Olaosebikan, a former Chief Press Secretary to the late former Gov. Lam Adesina of Oyo State, says the ongoing APC membership registration exercise offers unique opportunity for youths to participate actively in politics. Olaosebikan stated this in a statement issued to newsmen on Sunday in Ibadan. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Olaosebikan, a former Chairman of Oluyole Local Government council, is the Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee of the APC membership registration/revalidation exercise in the state. According to him, the exercise is a great opportunity for youths to achieve most of the things they were demanding for during the 2020 #EndSARS protest and put an end to dearth of quality youths in active politics. “All the youth need to do is register for the party in their numbers at their various polling units so as to form the majority from the grassroots, where the lines of leadership and control begin. “Once they form the majority at polling units and subsequently at the wards, they are in good stead to take the control of the party, and they will be well involved in forming governments at different levels,” he said. He further stated that this would make achievement of the lofty idea of decent living, functional and youth-friendly policies, gainful employment for all as well as good governance easy. The party chieftain said that the action would also allow them choose only those with sufficient capacity, competence and care to lead the party from the ward to the national level. Olaosebikan advised youths to take full advantage of the opening provided by the ‘well-timed’ registration exercise taking place more than two years before the next general elections to position themselves for leadership and greatness. The former council boss likened the present political situation in the country to those of 1950s and 1960s, when youths took over leadership of the country from the elderly ones on educational advantage. Olaosebikan urged the youth to deploy their digital knowledge and numerical strength against the old analogue system to propagate themselves constructively. He also called on youths in the 351 wards in the state to mobilise themselves massively and register for the party. According to him, APC is the only party that is ready and prepared to welcome them on board and give them opportunities to lead. He quored Mr Bawa Bwari, the Chairman of Membership Revalidation and Registration Committee for the state as assuring that there would be no discrimination or exclusion of any sort in the state. Olaosebikan said that the entire process had been made easy and seamless with the adequate training of supervisors at all levels. He added that the actual registration exercise would begin in all the polling units across the 33 local government areas of the state on Feb. 9. (NAN)